[Music]
and rehabilitation for all Israel had
gone to Shechem to make him King so it
happened when Jeroboam the son of Nebat
heard it he was still in Egypt for he
had fled from the presence of King
Solomon and had been dwelling in Egypt
that they sent and called him then
Jeroboam and the whole Assembly of
Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam your
father made our yoke heavy
now therefore lightened the burdensome
service of your father and his heavy
yoke which he put on us and we will
serve you the part for three days then
come back to me and the people departed
then King Rehoboam consulted the elders
who stood before his father Solomon
while he still lived and he said how do
you advise me to answer these people if
you will be a servant to these people
today and serve them and answer them and
speak good words to them then they will
be your servants forever
but he rejected the advice which the
elders had given him and consulted the
young men who had grown up with him who
stood before him what advice do you give
how should we answer this people who
have spoken to me saying lighten the
yoke which your father put on us thus
you should speak to this people who have
spoken to you saying your father made
our yoke heavy but you make it lighter
on us thus you shall say to them my
little finger shall be thicker than my
father's waist and now whereas my father
put a heavy yoke on you I will add to
your yoke my father chastised you with
whips but I will chastise you with
sturgeons so Jeroboam
and all the people came to Rehoboam the
third day as the King had directed
saying come back to me the third day
then the King answered the people
roughly and rejected the advice which
the elders have given him and he spoke
to them according to the advice of the
young men my father made your yoke heavy
but I will add to your yoke my father
chastised you with whips but I will
chastise you with scourging so the King
did not listen to the people of a turn
of events was from the Lord that he
might fulfill his word which the Lord
had spoken by a high Jew the Shila night
to Jeroboam the son of Nebat now when
all Israel saw that the king did not
listen to them the people answered the
king
what share have we and David we have no
inheritance in the son of Jesse
- you're tense Oh Israel now see to your
own household David
so Israel departed to their tents but
rehabilitated then King Rehoboam sent
adora who was in charge of the revenue
but all Israel's stoned him with stones
and he died
[Music]
therefore King Rehoboam mounted his
chariot in haste to flee to Jerusalem so
Israel has been in rebellion against the
house of David to this day now it came
to pass when all Israel heard that
Jeroboam had come back they sent for him
and called him to the congregation and
made him king over all Israel there was
none who followed the house of David but
the tribe of Judah only and when we
Harbor name to Jerusalem he assembled
all the house of Judah with the tribe of
Benjamin 180,000 chosen men who were
warriors to fight against the house of
Israel that he might restore the kingdom
to rehabilitate Ashim maiya but man of
God
speak to Rehoboam the son of solomon
king of judah to all the house of Judah
and Benjamin and to the rest of the
people saying thus says the Lord you
shall not go up nor fight against your
brethren the children of Israel that
every man returned to his house for this
thing is from me
therefore they obeyed the word of the
Lord and turn back according to the word
of the Lord then Jeroboam built Shechem
in the mountains of Ephraim and dwelt
there also he went out from there and
built vineyard and Jeroboam said in his
heart now the kingdom they returned to
the house of David
if these people go up to offer
sacrifices in the house of the Lord of
Jerusalem then the heart of his people
will turn back to their Lord
riah born king of judah and they will
kill me and go back to raya born king of
judah therefore the king asked advice
made to calves of gold and said to the
people and is too much for you to go up
to Jerusalem here are your God's o
Israel which brought you up from the
land of Egypt and he set up one in
Bethel and the other he puttin down how
this thing became a sin for the people
went to worship before the one as far as
Dan he made shrines on the high places
and made priests from every class of
people who were not of the sons of Levi
Jeroboam ordained a feast on the
fifteenth day of the 8th month like the
feast that was in Judah and offered
sacrifices on the altar so he did at
Bethel sacrificing to the calves that he
had made and at Bethel he installed the
priests of the high places which he had
made
so he made offerings on the altar which
he had made at Bethel on the 15th day of
the eighth month in the month which he
had devised in his own heart and he
ordained a feast for the children of
Israel and offered sacrifices on the
altar and burned incense
[Music]